C语言

C is a general-purpose computer programming language.
It was created in the 1970s by Dennis Ritchie, and remains very widely used and influential.
By design, C's features cleanly reflect the capabilities of the targeted CPUs. 
It has found lasting use in operating systems, device drivers, and protocol stacks, but its use in application software has been decreasing.
C is commonly used on computer architectures that range from the largest supercomputers to the smallest microcontrollers and embedded systems.

A successor to the programming language B, C was originally developed at Bell Labs by Ritchie between 1972 and 1973 to construct utilities running on Unix.
It was applied to re-implementing the kernel of the Unix operating system. During the 1980s, C gradually gained popularity. 
It has become one of the most widely used programming languages, with C compilers available for practically all modern computer architectures and operating systems. 
The book The C Programming Language, co-authored by the original language designer, served for many years as the de facto standard for the language.
C has been standardized since 1989 by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) and the International Organization for Standardization (ISO).

C is an imperative procedural language, supporting structured programming, lexical variable scope, and recursion, with a static type system.
It was designed to be compiled to provide low-level access to memory and language constructs that map efficiently to machine instructions, 
all with minimal runtime support. Despite its low-level capabilities, the language was designed to encourage cross-platform programming. 
A standards-compliant C program written with portability in mind can be compiled for a wide variety of computer platforms and operating 
systems with few changes to its source code.

the inventor of the C programming language, Dennis Ritchie with Ken Thompson


在1969年，由于AT&T（美国电话电报公司） Bell实验室退出了Multics（MULTiplexed Information and Computing System）项目的研发，
而导致Dennis Ritchie和Ken Thompson这两位程序员失去了他们的编程环境。

当时这二位使用的是一台由迪吉多生产的PDP-7迷你计算机，这在当时来说也是一种落后的设备，但这也不能阻挡Dennis Ritchie和Ken Thompson对操作系统的研究的痴迷，
他们共同使用B语言在PDP-7上实现了一个简单的操作系统，名为Unics（UNiplexed Information and Computing System），并于1970年发布第一版，后来Unics缩短了名称变为了Unix。

但B语言在开发系统软件时不够强大，所以1971年共同发明了C语言，且由于Unix系统在Bell实验室的流行使得二人在1973年使用C语言重构了Unix系统，这使得Unix成为了一种通用的操作系统，
当时Bell实验室的母公司AT&T决定将Unix系统免费提供给大学用于教学和科研项目。

1983年，美国计算机协会将图灵奖授予Dennis和Thompson。

